---
layout: post
categories: news
img: a.jpg
tab: Nominees 2013 
title: MSE Nomination Blurbs 2013 
---
  
Chair – Vinson Truong  
Year: 1T4  
  
Guess I’m nominating myself for chair? Doesn’t look like we have any other nominations lol  
  
<!-- more -->  
  
Chair – Abrar Mahmud  
Year: 1T3+PEY  
  
Why?: I have been actively (albeit selectively active in the first 2 years) involved in EngSoc as class representative for MSE 1T3s in our first 2 years. I was also sports director for the MSE club in 2011/2012 which involved the organization of intramural soccer, basketball, dodgeball, and an attempt at a gym club. I have a deep pride for MSE, and I have tried to show it through my actions during my time at UofT. I believe that my enthusiasm and diligence will be a boon to the MSE club, with which I have already been actively involved with for 3 years. Among the specific positions’ duties, I have also contributed to the MSE club by naming our annual Dinner Dance the “Bucky Ball”, I was also the event’s first Buck-Minister along with Jason Sukhram, and I have tried to help and have been involved in all of the events put forward by the MSE club during my time with them. I think that my personality, leadership, and willingness to work with others are the main reasons why I should be MSE Club Chair. Thank you for your consideration.  
  
What is MSE Club?: We all attend the largest university in the country, and it’s very easy to feel lost in the fray. I think that the purpose of the MSE Club is the make the students in the faculty of MSE feel more connected to this University we call home for 4 or more years. I think it’s the club’s responsibility to make the students’ lives at Skule memorable. The students’ experience at Skule is deeply impacted by the events organized by the MSE club, whether it be a faculty or a fun event.  
_______________________________  
Vice Chair – Michael Sabatini  
Year: 1T5  
  
I guess I too am nominating myself.  
___________________________  
Financial Director – Mark Martirossian  
Year: 1T5  
  
Hello!  
My name is Mark Martirossian, currently a 2nd year (1T5) MSE. Im looking to fill the role of MSE club’s financial director.  
I would be a good fit for a few reasons: I’m good with money that is to say I’m organized, and responsible.  
I’m looking to get more involved in MSE activities as a whole, and this seems like a great way to contribute.  
Lastly, I have too much free time on my hands — help.  
___________________________  
Financial Director – Sky Duong  
Year: 1T5  
  
Hi,  
  
My name is Sky Duong (1T5), I am running for Financial Director.  
  
I have been involved with UTRA as a project manager for 2 years. This position has taught me how to manage the budget for the robot and club in general. I oversee purchases, competition registration, plan meetings, and make sure the robot is made. These duties have rewarded me with more responsibilities and more executive duties that I’ll be able to apply to the MSE club. I want to help us develop a better common room that will be the envy of other disciplines. It would be a great experience to be part of the MSE club team next year!  
  
Thank you for your consideration,  
  
Sky Duong  
___________________________________  
Bucky Ball Director – Anastasia Alksnis  
Year: 1T6  
  
Hey, my name is Anastasia Alksnis, your current 1st Year Class Rep. For 1T3/1T4, I want to become your Events Director, and while I’m at it, why not be a class rep again as well. As an Events Director, I will try to ensure another well organized Bucky Ball! Being on the exec team this year, I already have a good idea of all the work that goes into organizing one of these shindigs. Along with that, I want to create many fun events throughout the year with lots of food and drinks! I hope to be 2nd year rep, as well. I love my class of MSE’s and love being able to represent them!  
_____________________________  
Sports Director – Jonathan Jeyarajah  
Year: 1T6  
  
Hey whats up, i’m gonna talk about stuff now so yea. Well lets see I love sports and sports have materials, and I love materials so my love for both are just combined into one :D  
  
Haha, no really though I saw what Billy did this year and it seemed kind of cool and an interesting way of getting involved. I know that its not just the position but even being on the council just seems like something pretty cool to do. I also have some cool ideas with sports tourneys and fantasy leagues.  
  
Yeah! that’s all i got  
PS I LOVE SPORTS  
_____________________________  
Sports Director – Ayman Elzoka  
Year: 1T3+PEY  
  
Hi everyone,  
  
Through my participation in sports with MSE for the last couple of years, I observed several obstacles in the way of improvement and success of our teams. My work as an engineer for the last twelve months enhanced my problem solving skills. Dealing with real-life situations and problems on daily basis supports intellectual and personal development. I would like to bring this to MSE sports and recreational activities in general. I have ideas, passion and unstoppable determination to make a tangible progress.  
  
So, it would be a privilege to serve as your Sports Director for the upcoming year.  
  
(Also I apologize for the bad grammar lol)  
  
Ayman  
  
_____________________________  
Communications Director – Bryan James  
Year: 1T6  
  
Aloha fellow MSEs,  
  
My name is Bryan James aka Bryman aka B-rye the Science Guy and I am a first year MSE and I want to tell you all about SKULE and MSE club’s awesome activities and events that are going on next year! A little bit about myself, I was the founder and co-captain of my high schools robotics team and from that experience I’ve learned how to communicate our events and meetings. In addition, I have twice been a team leader in ESP (lucky me, right), anyway I’ve learned even more about communicating and getting the word out for last minute team meetings and making sure everyone heard.  
  
So without further ado, elect me next year’s Communications Director of MSE Club!  
  
Thanks a lot for the opportunity,  
  
Bryman signing out…