---
year: 2
title: MAT294 - Calculus and Differential Equations
---

##### Description

* * *


This course is split into two sections: one part multivariable calculus and one part differential equations. You will learn how to describe surfaces and solids in 3D and higher dimensions, integrate in different coordinate systems, and discover some fundamental differential equations which govern related laws in materials science. The goal of this course is to learn and understand the mathematics that will appear in later courses.

The class is divided into “cycles” or modules, which each include an assignment, some homework questions, and some “cycles” have tests. The class tends to emphasise the concepts behind the math rather than calculation

##### Thematic Questions

* * *


How can we use different coordinate systems to more efficiently calculate systems or solids?
What fundamental mathematical theorems do engineers use? 
What are their proofs and how can we apply them to real life?
How can we use differential equations to predict a changing system at any point in time and space?
How do we do calculus if we now have multiple changing variables? 


##### Tips

* * *


  -   Math is about practice; it will be difficult to figure out which coordinate system to use for certain integrals or which variable to integrate first if you don’t do a few practice questions first
  -   Attend lectures because having a differential equation explained to you is much easier than trying to learn it yourself. Take notes for every step!
  -   Don’t forget about the definitions of theorems which are simple proofs! They might appear on your midterm or final
  -   If you’re stuck with a few questions, try YouTube (math examples are some of the easiest to find on the Internet, much easier than more specialized areas of study)
  -   Most differential equations have been done many times, there are many online resources which will take you through the steps. Use these for clarification or practice on the basic differential equations. However, the final exam or midterm may feature one you have’t seen before.
  -   Go to lectures! If the class is structured with “pre-class essentials” make sure to do these, so that you get value from the lectures!
  -    Prof. Parsch is very nice! Go to his office hours and ask him questions if you are struggling!


##### Useful resources

* * *

 
  -   Briggs, Cochrane, & Gillet "Calculus for Scientists and Engineers, Early Transcendentals"
