---
year: 2
title: MSE219 - Structure and Characterization of Materials
---

##### Description

* * *


This course offers an introduction to the basic concepts and principles of crystallography and characterization of materials – both in 2D and 3D. Beginning with the concept of reciprocal space and leading into crystal lattices and groups, the first half of the course deals with determining the arrangement of atoms in a crystal, their denotation, the language used in materials science to describe structures and transformations. Once you finish with tensors, the course shifts to cover material characterization, where you learn about various types of crystallographic techniques from Atomic Force Microscopy to X-Ray Diffraction.

All in all, the course focuses on characterising, understanding and exploring the microstructures of materials. 


##### Thematic Questions

* * *


What is reciprocal space and how is understanding it useful to us as Material Engineers?
How does symmetry make our lives infinitely easier when studying crystalline solids?
Which characterization technique is appropriate to determine a particular property?
What are the sample limitations to using this technique?

##### Tips

* * *


  -   Spend extra time working on and rereading your lab reports. Although they are very detailed and take up quite some time, they are useful for fully understanding the information provided in the lab and the questions in the write-up are directly applicable to the exam.
  -   Lab reports in this course will require more detail and depth than previous lab reports
  -   Write any clarifying information you think might be important on the slides<
  -   Copy EVERY diagram the professor draws on the board.
  -   In case you didn’t notice, reciprocal space is super important.

##### Useful resources

* * *

 
  -   R. Tilley, <i>Crystals and Crystal Structures</i>, John Wiley &amp; Sons, Chichester, UK, 2006
  -   W.D. Callister, Materials Science and Engineering, 6th ed., John Wiley &amp; Sons, New York, 2003
  -   <a href="http://reference.iucr.org/dictionary/Main_Page">International Union of Crystallography</a>
