---
year: 2
title: MSE244 - Inorganic Materials Chemistry and Processing
---

##### Description

* * *


This course covers the fundamental trends that help shape the periodic table, and offers an understanding of why different elements behave differently. Once a thorough understanding of periodic trends is presented, individual elements are analysed and their uses in modern applications are understood. This course is important to know how a material will react in a certain situation, before it is actually applied. A lot of the content covered will echo your high school chemistry introduction. This course also dabbles in material processing from natural resources such as ores.

##### Thematic Questions

* * *


What causes certain elements to be more or less reactive than others?
How can we test and differentiate between different inorganic compounds?

##### Tips

* * *


  -   Write your notes on the slides given. Print them out and organize them in a binder, or save them in OneNote. Don’t forget to take notes on videos shown in class, a few test questions may come from videos.
  -   This course is heavy on memorization so make sure to take note of details and generalizations mentioned in class, particularly periodic trends.
  -   For the lab write-up due 1 week after the lab takes place, directly answer the questions in point form. You do not need to write anything more than what is asked directly. Clarify any analysis questions as marks for labs are significantly weighted.
    -  Study past midterms and exams. The format of the tests rarely changes, and being prepared can give you a real advantage.

##### Useful resources

* * *


 - Slides given each lecture
 - Glen E. Rodgers <i>Descriptive Inorganic, Coordination, &amp; Solid State Chemistry</i> (Third Edition)
