---
year: 5
title: MSE343 - Biomaterials
---

##### Description

* * *


This course focuses on biomaterials, beginning with an overview of relevant biology (like immune responses) and then focuses on various biomaterials with particular time spent on orthopaedic implants and fracture fixation, as well as dental implants.

It is an introductory course, and previous biology knowledge (while it may be helpful) is not required! Tissue engineering, and other fun areas of current research are sprinkled throughout the course. The course aims to close the gap between materials engineering and biology, and teaches you how to think about biomaterial design.

##### Thematic Questions

* * *


What happens when a biomaterial is implanted into the body? How can we change materials to make them safer in the body? What does it mean to be biocompatible? How can we make/change an implant for different types of bone? What considerations are necessary for biomaterials?

##### Tips

* * *


  -   Use flashcards or a similar method to become familiar with the large volume of vocabulary.  
  -   Try and keep detailed notes. Concepts introduced early in the semester become absolutely critical in the final weeks of the class.
  -   This course may appear unrelated to materials science at first, but the applications of these basic biology lessons become apparent when body-material interactions need to be considered.
  - Journal articles are a decent part of the class, be prepared to read them! It can be helpful to keep very brief notes on each article (ie. goals, significance and shortcomings) as you read it, as this will help you participate in class discussion and on the tests.
  - Be prepared to participate and present in class! 

##### Useful resources

* * *


 - <a href="http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-051j-materials-for-biomedical-applications-spring-2006/">MIT OpenCourseware: Materials for Biomedical Applications</a>
 - Tutorial summary slides and assignments can help you pick out the contexts where you will need to apply the vast amount of biological knowledge you are taught.
 - Also, there are past exams on courses.skule.ca :)  
