---
year: 3
title: MSE318
---

##### Description

* * *


Phase transformations are among the material engineer’s greatest tools in controlling the properties of a material system. This course relies on your knowledge of thermodynamics and diffusion to learn how the microstructure of a material impacts its macroscopic properties. This is explored by use of free energy diagrams to reflect such phenomena as crystallization, nucleation and grain growth. An integral course in the MSE curriculum.  

##### Thematic Questions

* * *


How do metallic microstructures develop?
How can thermodynamic and kinetic principles explain phase transformations?
What are phase transformations?

##### Tips

* * *


  -   Review Thermodynamics and Diffusion thoroughly , this course is an application of those two courses.
  -   Pay attention during the labs; the lessons learned are often subtle with far-reaching consequences. 
  -   Prof. Hibbard doesn’t usually use lecture slides.Take lots of notes
  -   Pay attention in class . Prof Hibbard gives a lot of hints on midterm/exam content if you’re paying attention to the details.

##### Useful resources

* * *


 - Porter, David A, K. E Easterling, and Mohamed Y Sherif, <i>Phase Transformations In Metals And Alloys</i>
 - Kostorz, G., <i>Phase Transformations In Materials</i>  
 - <a href="http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-00-thermodynamics-of-materials-fall-2002/">MIT OpenCourseware: Thermodynamics of Materials</a>
 - <a href="http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-40j-physical-metallurgy-fall-2009/">MIT OpenCourseware: Physical Metallurgy</a>
 - <a href="http://people.virginia.edu/~lz2n/mse209/Chapter10.pdf">Phase Transformations</a>
