---
year: 3
title: MSE351 - Design and Sim of Materials Processes
---

##### Description

* * *


This course is on the mathematical modelling of materials via the finite-element method. The focus is on developing practical solutions to the theoretical differential equations controlling stress/strain, heat transfer, and fluid flow. There is a strong lab/software component using the ANSYS software to solve practical and multidisciplinary engineering problems. There is also a group project to model an engineering system of your choice.

##### Thematic Questions

* * *


What controls how we model a material system and its boundary conditions?
What are the limitations of computational materials modelling?

##### Tips

* * *


  -   Make sure your skills in Linear Algebra are sharp; the hand calculations in this course are typically matrix manipulations.
  -   Be comfortable in deriving equations given a set of boundary conditions. It happens quite frequently.
  -   Do not skip any of the early lecture; you’ll miss the common framework that is used throughout the course.
  -   Ask for help- Professor Singh is more than willing to help those who aren’t afraid to ask!

##### Useful resources

* * *


 - Moaveni, Saeed. <i>Finite Element Analysis- Theory and Application with ANSYS 4e</i>
 - <a href="http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-092-finite-element-analysis-of-solids-and-fluids-i-fall-2009/lecture-notes/">MIT OpenCourseware Lecture Notes: Finite Element Analysis of Solids and Fluids</a>
