---
year: 3
title: MSE335
---

##### Description

* * *


This course discusses the application of solid state physics used to describe material properties. Special focus is given to properties related to phonon and electron interactions in a crystal lattice. This course is essential in understanding the properties and effects used in the semiconductor/electronics industry.

Previously taken in second year. The nitty-gritty of materials is expounded in this course that highlights the important theories and fundamental concepts that describe material behaviours. From the Drude model of electron motion that describes conductivity, to electron polarizations that result in the magnetization of materials, this course provides a look at the math and physics that lies at the heart of the material properties we take for granted.

Disclaimer: some of the course content may be slightly different or more difficult than what past students remember.

##### Thematic Questions

* * *


What causes the electromagnetic properties of metals?
How do electrons and phonons interact in a crystal lattice?

##### Tips

* * *


  -   The course is heavy on complex equations; however, the concepts the equations describe are fairly simple.
  -   Focus on understanding the concepts and how the equations describe those phenomena.
  -   Ask questions in class when things get confusing because 9 out of 10 times the rest of the class is also struggling with the same thing.
  -   This course covers a lot of challenging content, try to sift through the topics and determine which are most important and will be tested.
  -   Get help on assignments. Its rare that one student will naturally understand all the topics covered in the course immediately.
  
##### Useful resources

* * *


 - Kasap, S. O. <i>Principles Of Electronic Materials And Devices</i>.
 - Kittel, Charles. <i>Introduction To Solid State Physics</i>
 - <a href="http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-024-electronic-optical-and-magnetic-properties-of-materials-spring-2013/">MIT OpenCourseware: Electronic Optical and Magnetic Properties of Materials</a>
