---
year: 8
title: MSE419 - Fracture and Failure Analysis
---
##### Description

* * *


MSE419 teaches fracture and failure of materials, focusing mainly on metals. This is a very useful course! The information is vital to MSEs, as it relates to how to design against failure from a materials perspective.

You will learn about crack initiation and propagation, and when a part is safe/needs redesign or replacement. Fracture mechanics (how materials fracture and related calculations) is a major focus of the course. The next major section of the course is fatigue - what it is, and relevant graphs/calculations. The way the course flows is that first the main ideas (microstructural effects on fracture in metals, ceramics, thin films, biological materials and composites, toughening mechanisms, crack growth resistance and creep fracture) will be covered.

Then the following topics will also be discussed: interface fracture mechanics, fatigue damage and dislocation  substructures  in  single  crystals,  stress-  and  strain-life approach to fatigue, fatigue crack growth models and mechanisms, variable  amplitude  fatigue, corrosion  fatigue  and  case  studies  of fracture  and  fatigue  in  structural,  bioimplant,  and  microelectronic components. This class has weekly assignments. 

##### Thematic Questions

* * *


How/under what circumstances do materials fail/fracture? 

##### Tips

* * *


  -   Yu Zhou is a good professor and always open to questions. 
  -   Make sure to use the slides, as they contain all the useful information - and most of this is elaborated on in the textbook if you need more info!
  -   Tutorials are alright, but most learning occurs in the slides/textbook. 


##### Useful resources

* * *

